[MUSIC]
>> Jafar Husain: Open your browser.
If you have Firefox,
I recommend you use Firefox for this.
But if you have Chrome or
IE, it'll work just fine.
The only reason to use Firefox
is to use the arrow function,
which I showed you earlier.
Which, this would be a really good
time to learn the arrow function.
It's going to save you a lot of typing.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: There was a question
on the last one.
What happens when a user will click
multiple times on the play button?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question.
Well, so yeah, implicitly here.
The code is assuming that if
you click play multiple times,
it will trigger a cancel
event that makes sense.
So you're never going to get play,
play, play, cancel, cancel,
cancel, you always get play
cancel play play cancel play.
That's not visible in the code here,
but that's effectively how it works.
So it's, if you press play again on a
different title, it's implicit cancel, and
so that cancel stream doesn't
just have back buttons, but
it also has further
newer play play events.
>> Jafar Husain: So,
let's load up the learning exercises here.
Have we all got this up?
>> Jafar Husain: So, the way this
works is we've got exercises, and
you go down here, you run them,
and no news is good news.
If it runs and nothing happens, you can
scroll down and go to the next exercise.
So, the first few exercises
are filled out for you.
So, in this particular exercise,
we're just solving stuff using loops, so
what we're doing is as we fill
these exercises, at first,
we're gonna have you solve a problem
using the familiar loop approach,
and then we're gonna have you solve
that same problem using one of the five
functions for each, the few functions for
each map, produce, filter, and zip.
So, we're going to teach
you a new function.
How do you solve a problem with a loop?
And then how do you solve the same
problem with a new function?
So here,
we're using what we shouldn't be using and
what we can't use for
Async functions, which is four.
All right, so we've got a for loop.
We're just looping
through a bunch of names.
We're putting them out.
Okay, can everybody see that?
>> Jafar Husain: So
if I run this, nothing happened.
But if I scroll down, I'll see that
the next exercise has been revealed.
So, that first exercise is
already filled out for us.
So we scroll down to find that the for
loop has now been replaced with
the arrays for each method.
So, it's the same exercise as before,
except this time we are using for
each instead of the for loop.
So if I run this, it works.
I know that because the next
exercise beneath has been revealed.
So, I want to go through
the first exercise,
well, technically the third
exercise with you guys, right?
It's called projecting arrays.
So, projection is just a fancy word for
what map does,
it takes an array of items and
takes each item and
creates a new item and then puts all
the new items into a new collection.
That's sometimes projecting, and
the reason why, it's taking light and
transforming it, that's where that
idea of projection comes from, right?
That's kind of what map does, right?
As items come through,
it transforms them, right?
And so, you get a new collection with each
item transformed because it
ran through the function.
So, that's why we call it projecting.
But now we have an array of
Netflix new releases, for
example, we're gonna have a bunch
of these new releases, and
what I'd like to get out,
I don't care about all these properties.
All I want to get out is the IV and title.
So, what I can do is I can loop
over them using for each, right?
So technically, the for
each method, not a loop.
So here, it sees insert code.
Sorry, I think so, yeah.
Is that good enough?
May work.
Okay, so
we've got this video in title pairs,
and the goal here is to
accumulate up just the idea and
title from all these videos and
put them inside of video and title pairs.
So, I'm gonna go new releases.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm going to
create a little JSON object,
which has just the video ID and
just the title.
So, all we're doing is we're going
over each of these objects and
pulling out just the ID and title, and
putting that into a new array, and
that is what we are returning.
Video and title pairs, empty array, for
each over the new releases function,
add just the ID and
title of each video to the collection,
and then that's what we return.
So, let's give this a try.
Let's try and call return, run, rather.
And it worked.
We know it worked because
stuff was revealed beneath.
So now that we've done this operation,
you probably recognize that
this is exactly what map does.
Map goes through a collection,
applies some transformation to each item
in the collection, not actually
changing it, but creating a new item,
and then accumulating up those
new items into an array.
So, instead of just using map,
we are actually going to implement map.
We're going to write map ourselves.
So, every single function
you guys use today,
you're going to write yourself to make
sure that you actually know how it works.
So, map already exists on array,
but we're gonna replace it,
we're going to overwrite it.
And notice that what we do, we've taken
the common bit of this, the pattern.
First, we create an array to
accumulate up the results, and
then we for each over this.
Now, in this context,
we're adding map to the arrays prototype,
which means we're adding
map to the array type.
And so this, in this context, actually
means the array that we're mapping over.
And so, since for each exists an array,
we can for each over it.
And now all we have to do is
take the projection function,
this is the function that we want to
apply to every item in the array, and
apply it to the item in the array.
>> Jafar Husain: Now, we're not done,
because we have to take the result that we
transmit, and
we need to add it to the new collection.
And that's how map works.
That's all there is to it.
It's a method on array,
which accepts a function to apply to
every single item in a collection.
It takes the results of calling that
function all those times we've put some
into new array, and then returns that.
That's the definition of that.
Five lines of code.
So, let's see if this works and run it.
And it does.
So, what I'm gonna do from
this point on is we're gonna
turn these exercises over to you.
It's really important that you
guys actually do these yourself.
And not just watch me do them, right?
And I'm going to do them at the end
of every section, for example, right?
For the videos purposes, but I really want
you guys to try and do them yourself.
Because you're not going to learn this,
unless you really start to build those
new neural pathways by putting yourself
at a loss by trying something very,
very differently.
So, we're gonna start from this point on,
is anybody having any problems
getting to this point?
Have you filled out the map definition?
>> Jafar Husain: I'm going
to teach you a coping skill,
coding inside of text boxes and
web pages is not always convenient, right?
One is you can copy into your
favorite text editor and
you can finish it out there and
paste it in.
That's one approach you can do, but
if you're having some trouble and
you're try to figure out
why something doesn't work,
you can always take advantage of your
browsers built in debugger tool.
So, let's go back to
this particular example.
Let's say I don't know why
something isn't working.
I can always use this approach,
who's familiar with this directive?
Right, debugger?
If you throw debugger semi-colon
into any arbitrary piece of code,
and then in Chrome or
in Firefox open up your developer tools.
>> Jafar Husain: And then run that code.
>> Jafar Husain: You will
see the code right here, and
it will break at that particular
statement where you've written debugger.
This is an invaluable tool
to allow you to figure out
what's going wrong with your program.
Cuz I can tell you, the error
messages here are not that great.
That's on me.
But that's why, that's definitely
something you want to do.
So, you can step now,
I can step through and
figure out why doesn't this thing look
like what it's supposed to look like?
So, just open your developer tools,
whether you're using Firefox or Chrome,
I will also demonstrate why I
told you guys to use Firefox.
If you had Firefox, because the latest
version of Firefox is great
because you can use the aero
functions that I showed off before.
I'm not 100% sure if you can use
the with aero functions with Chrome,
I don't think so.
Is that a note right here?
>> Speaker 2: Canary.
>> Jafar Husain: If you have the canary
version of Chrome, you probably can.
I'm going to fill up, notice here.
I'm giving away the exit,
this solution exercise five here.
But notice I'm using that arrow
instead of writing out function.
That can be tremendous.
Let me make that bigger, too.
>> Jafar Husain: It's very, very nice
to be able to use the aero functions.
So, if you can use them, I would highly
recommend using the floppy exercises.
So, you can get Chrome canary
if you like Chrome, or
you can use Firefox to do it one way or
the other.
I think we left off on exercise three,
which is projecting an array of videos
into an array of id and title pairs.
Now, remember, again,
when we talk about projection,
we're talking about the map function.
We're talking about applying a function to
every item in a collection, transforming
it into a new item, and then putting all
those new items in a new collection.
So, the goal here is to use for
each, so for each over new releases,
and then accumulate up just the ID and
title of
each video into this video entitled pairs
array, and that's what we've done here.
So, I'll run it.
It works.
We'll move on.
Now, implementing map is straightforward.
All map does is we're adding a map
method to an array, all it's going to do
is it is going to for each over, this,
which in this context is the array itself,
because we're adding the map
to the array object.
And then for every single one of
these items, so let's look, actually,
let's look down here at the example,
I find this instructive.
So, let's take a look at this
example execution of map.
So here.
This is going to be this object, right?
It's going to be the array of one,
two, three, and
projection function is going to
be this function right here.
So, all we're going to
do is we're going to for
each over our self, so,
first item in array is going to be one.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
So, first item in array is gonna be one,
then item array is gonna be two, and
then item in array gonna be three.
So, all we have to do is apply
the projection function to the item
in the array, and that will run
this function right here with X.
Substitute it as one the first time.
X is two the second time.
And X is three the third time, and
take whatever comes out as the result and
add it to the results array.
And then finally,
return the results array, and
that's how we get two, three, four.
So, that's how map works.
So, let's solve the same
problem we solved before.
We wanna get the ID in title, from
every single video in the new releases,
except this time we're going to
use map instead of for each.
Well, okay, so it's there already.
But that's effectively how we do it.
We take the map function, we pass in a
function which accepts the video, and then
simply returns a JSON object containing
only the ID and title, and we're done.
So, as you can see already, there's a lot
less boilerplate with map and using for
each and accumulating up objects, right?
So, we're going to run that, great, works.